As a developer, it is essential that you'd write automated tests for your code.
Persistence code is no exception.
However, writing tests for persistence layer is more
cumbersome since the database needs to be managed as well.
Thus need to run in isolation from other test.
It also needs to manipulate data without affecting other tests.
The database needs to be left at the same state before and after the test.
If the test is running in a database server,
it is harder to clean up after the test.
The developer needs to be meticulous in rolling back every action that tests did.
That sounds complicated.
What if you have a database that you can create and destroy at will?
Enter H2, an in-memory relational database that runs in the same process as your test.
It is very typical for a test to create a H2 database,
add some tables, run its fixtures,
do some assertions, and destroyed at the end.
That's a lot of code for one test.
Fear not.
The spring test framework makes it easy to write persistent tests
by eliminating all the boilerplate necessary to manage the database.
Do read the next section to learn how to set up and run a springboard persistence test.